why howdy there internet people it's
Bubba Gannon so tonight we're going to
talk about voting and the electoral
college we're going to talk about it
because I my son asked about it I told
him a joke about John Quincy Adams and
that joke is that John Quincy Adams once
approved an expedition to the center of
the earth like Jules Verne style go up
to the Arctic dive down meet the people
that live in the center of the earth
begin trading with them and thus create
a more prosperous United States if
you're waiting for the punchline to this
joke it's that it's true that actually
happened this of course led my son to
question how do we stop people like that
from getting in the Oval Office to begin
with and the Electoral College comes up
and he says we got to get rid of this
because right now people are winning the
election and they don't have the support
of most people I explained that if we
get rid of the electoral college
well then presidential candidates will
only campaign in major cities and those
will be the only voices that are heard
much to my dismay my son says well isn't
it true that people who live in major
cities tend to be better educated like
wow that is incredibly elitist it's not
about education it's about participation
we wouldn't say that about any other
demographic qualifier we can't do it
with geography yeah it is true that the
strongest argument against democracy is
a 10-minute conversation with your
average voter but this is the system
we've embraced in the United States if
we're going to get rid of that we have
to get rid of a lot more of the
Constitution than just how we select our
president he says that if it's about
participation we definitely have to
change it because right now your vote
only matters if you live in a swing
state yeah that's true that's true
and that's how the debate gets framed
even by the media that's how it gets
framed electoral college versus pop you
vote Democrats tend to want to go to the
popular vote because it would benefit
them Republicans who want to stay with
the electoral college because it
benefits them as my good friend dr.
Zoidberg used to say why not both when
this system was devised offices the
President of the United States was not
the most powerful office in the world it
didn't control the world's most powerful
military didn't have the ability to
force project anywhere on the planet in
24 hours it wasn't the de facto leader
of the world I think that making it
easier to get into this position is
probably the wrong move we should
probably be making it harder if we're
gonna change it let's make it more
difficult you have to get the electoral
college and the popular vote you have to
get both I would take it a step further
and say you have to get 2/3 of the
popular vote right now candidates win
elections by dividing the country by
playing one side against the other
getting people to kick down that's how
they win you want to sit in the most
powerful chair in the world prove
yourself are out on the campaign trail
show us that you can unite people I
would take it a step further and
introduced introduce rank-choice voting
as well right now there's a whole bunch
of people who are scared to vote for a
person who better represents them
because they're not a part of a major
party and if you vote for for Jill Stein
well that's really a vote for that
person you truly don't like shouldn't be
that way
introduce rank-choice voting and make it
more difficult to get into that office
we've had enough clowns stumble into
that office and they've caused a lot of
damage along the way you want to make
America great let's set the standards
higher not lower I'm not certain of how
to fix this problem but the one thing I
am sure about is that the answer is not
making it easier to sit in the most
powerful office in the world anyway it's
just a thought y'all have a good night